.. _whatsnew-3.1:

=======================
What's new in PyKE 3.1?
=======================


PyKE 3.1 provides the following improvements:

* ``kepclip`` works with target pixel files.
* ``kepfold`` API has been updated.
* ``kepfourier`` has been removed in favour of ``kepperiodogram``.
* ``kepdynamic``, ``keptrial``, and ``kepwindow`` have been sped up significantly
  by using astropy's LombScargle.

Additionally, those are the set of new features:

* ``module_output_to_channel`` and ``channel_to_module_output``: utility functions
  to convert module/output to corresponding channel number (and vice-versa).

* ``KeplerQualityFlags``: a class that encondes the meaning of the various Kepler
  QUALITY bitmask flags, as documented in the Kepler Archive Manual.

* ``KeplerTargetPixelFile``: a class that provides easy access to data and metadata
 of target pixel files.

* ``KeplerLightCurveFile``: a class that provides easy access to data and metadata
 of light curve files.

* ``LightCurve``: this class provides methods such as ``stitch``, ``flatten``, and ``fold``.

* ``KeplerCBVCorrector``: this class implements the functionality in ``kepcotrend``. It
  presents a few advantages, e.g., it automatically downloads the cotrend basis vectors
  files from MAST.

* ``SimplePixelLevelDecorrelationDetrender``: this class implements a basic version of
  the first order Pixel Level Decorrelation (PLD) used by Deming et. al. and Luger et.
  al..

* Pixel Response Function photometry classes have been developed. More precisely,
    * ``KeplerPRF``: implements a parametric PRF model using the PRF calibration files.
      This model has the following parameters: flux, centroid position, pixel scales, and
      rotation angle.
    * ``SimpleKeplerPRF``: a simple version of ``KeplerPRF`` in which the model is
      parametrized by flux and centroid position.
    * ``SceneModel``: a general class to combine an arbitrary number of PRF models
      and a background model. This class is one of the building blocks to enable
      simultaneous fitting of overlapping PRFs.
    * ``PRFPhotometry``: this class performs PRF photometry in target pixel files.

*For a quick look at the new features, see:*

.. toctree::

    ../tutorials/ipython_notebooks/whatsnew31.ipynb
